README.md, before:

# Facebook Ads Reports Helper

A Python ETL driver for Facebook Marketing API v23 data extraction and transformation. Simplifies the process of extracting Facebook Ads data and converting it to database-ready pandas DataFrames with comprehensive optimization features.

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/facebook-ads-reports)](https://pypi.org/project/facebook-ads-reports/)
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/machado000/facebook-ads-reports)](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports/commits/main)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/machado000/facebook-ads-reports)](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports/issues)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Features

- **Facebook Marketing API v23**: Latest API version support with full compatibility
- **Robust Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling with retry logic and specific exceptions
- **Multiple Report Types**: Pre-configured report models for common use cases
- **Custom Reports**: Create custom report configurations
- **Database-Ready DataFrames**: Optimized data types and encoding for seamless database storage
- **Smart Type Detection**: Dynamic conversion of metrics to appropriate int64/float64 types
- **Configurable Missing Values**: Granular control over NaN/NaT handling by column type
- **Character Encoding Cleanup**: Automatic text sanitization for database compatibility
- **Zero Impression Filtering**: Robust filtering handling multiple zero representations
- **Type Hints**: Full type hint support for better IDE experience

## Installation

```bash
pip install facebook-ads-reports
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Set up credentials

**Option A: Configuration file**

Create a `secrets/fb_business_config.json` file with your Facebook Ads API credentials:

```json
{
  "app_id": "YOUR_APP_ID",
  "app_secret": "YOUR_APP_SECRET",
  "access_token": "YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN",
  "ad_account_id": "act_1234567890",
  "base_url": "https://graph.facebook.com/v23.0"
}
```

**Option B: Environment variable**

Set the `FACEBOOK_ADS_CONFIG_JSON` environment variable with your credentials as JSON:

```bash
export FACEBOOK_ADS_CONFIG_JSON='{"app_id": "YOUR_APP_ID", "app_secret": "YOUR_APP_SECRET", "access_token": "YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN", "ad_account_id": "act_1234567890", "base_url": "https://graph.facebook.com/v23.0"}'
```

### 2. Basic usage

```python
from datetime import date, timedelta
from facebook_ads_reports import MetaAdsReport, MetaAdsReportModel, load_credentials

# Load credentials
credentials = load_credentials()
client = MetaAdsReport(credentials_dict=credentials)

# Configure report parameters
ad_account_id = "act_1234567890"
start_date = date.today() - timedelta(days=7)
end_date = date.today() - timedelta(days=1)

# Extract report data with database optimization
df = client.get_insights_report(
        ad_account_id=ad_account_id,
        report_model=MetaAdsReportModel.ad_performance_report,
        start_date=start_date,
        end_date=end_date
)

# Save to CSV
df.to_csv("ad_performance_report.csv", index=False)
```


## Available Report Models

- `MetaAdsReportModel.ad_dimensions_report` - Ad dimensions and metadata
- `MetaAdsReportModel.ad_performance_report` - Ad performance and actions metrics

## Custom Reports

Create custom report configurations:

```python
from facebook_ads_reports import create_custom_report

custom_report = create_custom_report(
    report_name="my_custom_report",
    select=["ad_id", "impressions", "spend"],
    from_table="ad_insights"
)

# Usage:
# df = client.get_insights_report(ad_account_id, custom_report, start_date, end_date)
```

## Database Optimization Features

- **Automatic Date Conversion**: String dates → `datetime64[ns]`
- **Dynamic Metrics Conversion**: Object metrics → `int64` or `float64` based on data
- **Preserve NULL Compatibility**: NaN/NaT preserved for database NULL mapping
- **Safe Conversion**: Invalid values gracefully ignored
- **ASCII Sanitization**: Removes non-ASCII characters for database compatibility
- **Length Limiting**: Truncates text to 255 characters (configurable)
- **Whitespace Trimming**: Removes leading/trailing whitespace


## Examples

Check the `examples/` directory for comprehensive usage examples:

- `basic_usage.py` - Simple report extraction


## Requirements

- Python 3.10-3.12
- pandas >= 2.0.0
- python-dotenv >= 1.0.0
- requests >= 2.32.4
- tqdm >= 4.65.0


## License

GPL License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


## Support

- [Documentation](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports#readme)
- [Issues](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports/issues)
- [Examples](examples/)


## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Commit message:

v2.0.0 - remove all pandas features, now return json like response as a list of dicts

README.md, after:

# Facebook Ads Reports Helper

A Python ETL driver for Facebook Marketing API v23 data extraction and transformation. Simplifies the process of extracting Facebook Ads data and converting it to structured data formats with comprehensive utility functions.

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/facebook-ads-reports)](https://pypi.org/project/facebook-ads-reports/)
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/machado000/facebook-ads-reports)](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports/commits/main)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/machado000/facebook-ads-reports)](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports/issues)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Features

- **Facebook Marketing API v23**: Latest API version support with full compatibility
- **Robust Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling with retry logic and specific exceptions
- **Multiple Report Types**: Pre-configured report models for common use cases
- **Custom Reports**: Create custom report configurations
- **Flexible Data Export**: Built-in CSV and JSON export utilities
- **Lightweight Architecture**: No pandas dependency for faster installations and smaller footprint
- **Type Hints**: Full type hint support with strict mypy compliance for better IDE experience
- **Data Processing Utilities**: Helper functions for data transformation and export

## Installation

```bash
pip install facebook-ads-reports
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Set up credentials

**Option A: Configuration file**

Create a `secrets/fb_business_config.json` file with your Facebook Ads API credentials:

```json
{
  "app_id": "YOUR_APP_ID",
  "app_secret": "YOUR_APP_SECRET",
  "access_token": "YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN",
  "ad_account_id": "act_1234567890",
  "base_url": "https://graph.facebook.com/v23.0"
}
```

**Option B: Environment variable**

Set the `FACEBOOK_ADS_CONFIG_JSON` environment variable with your credentials as JSON:

```bash
export FACEBOOK_ADS_CONFIG_JSON='{"app_id": "YOUR_APP_ID", "app_secret": "YOUR_APP_SECRET", "access_token": "YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN", "ad_account_id": "act_1234567890", "base_url": "https://graph.facebook.com/v23.0"}'
```

### 2. Basic usage

```python
from datetime import date, timedelta
from facebook_ads_reports import MetaAdsReport, MetaAdsReportModel
from facebook_ads_reports.utils import load_credentials, save_report_to_csv, save_report_to_json

# Load credentials
credentials = load_credentials()
client = MetaAdsReport(credentials_dict=credentials)

# Configure report parameters
ad_account_id = "act_1234567890"
start_date = date.today() - timedelta(days=7)
end_date = date.today() - timedelta(days=1)

# Extract report data
data = client.get_insights_report(
        ad_account_id=ad_account_id,
        report_model=MetaAdsReportModel.ad_performance_report,
        start_date=start_date,
        end_date=end_date
)

# Save to CSV using utility function
save_report_to_csv(data, "ad_performance_report.csv")

# Save to JSON using utility function
save_report_to_json(data, "ad_performance_report.json")
```


## Available Report Models

- `MetaAdsReportModel.ad_dimensions_report` - Ad dimensions and metadata
- `MetaAdsReportModel.ad_performance_report` - Ad performance and actions metrics

## Custom Reports

Create custom report configurations:

```python
from facebook_ads_reports import create_custom_report

custom_report = create_custom_report(
    report_name="my_custom_report",
    select=["ad_id", "impressions", "spend"],
    from_table="ad_insights"
)

# Usage:
# data = client.get_insights_report(ad_account_id, custom_report, start_date, end_date)
```

## Examples

Check the `examples/` directory for comprehensive usage examples:

- `basic_usage.py` - Simple report extraction


## Requirements

- Python 3.10-3.12
- requests >= 2.32.4


## License

GPL License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


## Support

- [Documentation](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports#readme)
- [Issues](https://github.com/machado000/facebook-ads-reports/issues)
- [Examples](examples/)


## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.
